First of all, Venerable Shakyamuni Buddha,
allow me to send my best wishes for health and peace to the entire Dharma assembly,
as well as to the guest Dharma assembly
today, and to all the
Buddhist followers and everyone
watching the program. Respectfully, to the
entire congregation, I am
quite surprised to be here today, as it is the
atmosphere of Buddha's Birthday.
However, this gathering feels like a
gathering where, although we were not
prepared, the spirit
is always ready because I have
a feeling that this is truly
a very happy and joyful big family.
Please give
another round of applause to encourage
our spirit. And to begin the program,
I would like to invite Sister Thanh Tam,
representing the Dharma assembly, to give a
speech to start the program
[music].
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Respectfully addressing the head of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies, and
respectfully addressing all fellow practitioners
present at today's conference,
in the atmosphere of welcoming the Buddha's Birthday, with
over 100
hearts beating as one, we gather
here to sing songs of happiness,
commemorating the day the Great Compassionate Father of the
world descended to earth. Each of
us today has the good fortune to be a
child of the Buddha, a disciple of the teacher, our
circumstances may differ, but our hearts are filled with
emotion at being
taught by the teacher and encouraged by the head of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies to
practice many virtuous deeds that
bring the greatest benefit to ourselves.
And on this full moon day of the T month,
more than 2000 years ago, Prince Siddhartha
was born in ancient India. Now,
together with all monks, nuns, and Buddhists
worldwide, we joyfully celebrate
his appearance, as the Buddhist scriptures say,
that appearance was of Great Light and Great Brightness,
his son who studied and practiced according to his teachings.  Under
the guidance of our master and the great monks and nuns of
Ba Vang Pagoda, we have gathered here to
express our gratitude for the noble grace of the Buddha
and to offer our praise. On
behalf of the
Buddhists in the Compassionate Dharma Center, I
would like to invite the head of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, who
is also the head of the Compassionate Dharma Center, to
open the ceremony. Yes, sir/madam.
Before the
opening remarks by the head of the Dharma Center
and the head of the club, I would like to
introduce the participants of
today's program. First, I would like to ask the
congregation to give a big round of applause to
welcome the head of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
head of the Compassionate Dharma Center, Buddhist devotee Pham
Thi Yen.
And let us continue to give a
round of applause to
welcome all members of the Compassionate Dharma Center,
as well as all the monks and nuns
practicing in the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club and under the roof of Ba Vang Pagoda. Please
give another big and resounding round of applause. Yes,
respectfully, the head of the Dharma Center, the
head of the club, and all the members of the community.  Dear
Buddhist devotees, today, in the
atmosphere of Buddha's Birthday, celebrating the birth of our esteemed Father, Shakyamuni Buddha, we are
holding a ceremony to celebrate the
Buddha's birth. This is also a
program for our community to
meet, share, and
express our joy in welcoming this great
event, a major holiday not only
for Buddhism but for the whole world.
Once again, I respectfully ask the congregation to
give a big round of applause to wish
for the success of our program. Respectfully,
to
begin today's program,
I would like to invite Ms. Pham Thi Yen, head of the
National Club and the Head of the Luc Hoa Buddhist Association, to give the
opening speech.
Please give a
big round of applause to welcome her!  [
Music]
[Applause]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
First of all, I, Yen, respectfully wish all fellow practitioners a joyful,
peaceful, and
diligent Vesak season. Dear fellow practitioners,
we are blessed to be born as
human beings. Each of us has
faith. No one is without
faith, and some
faiths bring us happiness, while others lead
to suffering. Our faith,
the faith of our fellow practitioners, stems from the good
seeds we have accumulated
over many lifetimes. Therefore, we have
faith in the teachings of the
Buddha. More than 2500 years ago, Prince Siddhartha was born,
practiced,
and became a Buddha, leaving us the teachings of liberation. We have been fortunate enough to achieve
faith in his righteous Dharma today, on this
anniversary. A warm welcome
from the compassionate Dharma community
during this
Vesak season. I, Yen,
congratulate all of us, Yen and
all the Buddhist practitioners here.
We have a complete faith. It is
truly a very...  Being moved means
we have a faith that
will bring us happiness and peace.
When I was
traveling
here, I heard a story from
some of the girls:
Before we knew about
Buddhism, we didn't know what was good and what was
evil. When I
started studying Buddhism, I
heard a saying: "We are ignorant, we don't know good and evil."
At that time, I thought, "
How can that be? How can
we not know good and evil, dear fellow
practitioners?" But after
studying Buddhism for a while,
I realized that saying was
true. The Buddha's words were true:
sentient beings are ignorant, they don't know good and evil.
Before, we only thought good was
doing good deeds.
But truly, with faith in the
truth, we know what is good and
what is evil, what causes
us to be trapped in the cycle of reincarnation. What
leads us
out of reincarnation is ignorance.
Today, on the anniversary of the Buddha's
birth, the compassionate heart of the Dharma center, I hope...  My dear fellow
practitioners, let us diligently cultivate
the goodness that
arises from our faith in the
Buddha's teachings.
This
diligent practice is what allows us to understand.
Without diligence, we cannot understand.
Today, all of us Buddhists, through the
enlightenment in the Buddha
's teachings, celebrate the Buddha's birthday. In
this enlightenment, we joyfully welcome the Buddha
's birthday. I hereby declare that the celebratory gathering of the
Compassionate Heart Dharma Center officially begins in joyful enlightenment, diligently seeking the path to liberation. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Yes, I
understand a little of your feelings and emotions.
Because when
I first stood here, I was very
moved. Perhaps when you stand on a
stage with people who
truly understand you and know you very well,
words suddenly become insufficient and
unnecessary for you to express yourself.  Because
the deeper we delve into our spiritual practice,
the words from the heart will reach
the heart—that is what our master taught.
Yes, let's give
another big round of applause to
begin our celebration of the
Buddha's birthday today at the Compassionate Heart Dharma Center. To begin the program, the
organizing committee has
prepared some spiritual gifts, namely songs and
hymns to praise
this special day. To start the program, I
would like to invite the entire congregation to
a musical piece titled "Joyful Rhythm of the Buddha's Birthday,"
performed by
young singer Mai Trang. Let's give a big round of applause for young
singer Mai
Trang!
Yes, I ask all Buddhist devotees to give a
big round of applause to welcome the
birth of the Buddha!
[Music]
Let's all welcome the light of the world! The
flowers bloom, the dew falls, the good nature adds
color, from the East to the
West, the flower tower rises, the Buddha
Shakyamuni has been born, from
the day of his birth, the sky is bright!  Moonlight,
tea, harmony, house, dirt, rising high, reaching the earth, the whole
Tỳ La, agarwood, living in the tree, without
radiance, lacking light. In the year of teasing, we and the Father, cold, the flock,
everywhere, joyful, celebrating, the
weary, fragrant, Silver Light, Bright
Palace, countless hearts, dark, fresh colors,
all joyful, resounding, the whole
world, one love, three, Yang Light,
vast ocean, life, dreams, more
joyful, singing, teasing, brother, hearing the echoes far down to
Heaven, on countless
flowery paths. Yes, I beg you, esteemed Buddhist followers, let
me see your hands, let us
together greet the light of the world. Yes, people, the
people, the ancient, countless good news, with more
fresh colors brought from the East to the
West. Harmony, bamboo, resounding, the palace, the Buddha,
Shakyamuni, was born from
the day of his birth, the sky, the moonlight, tea, harmony,
house, embroidered, Yang Light, High, reaching the earth, the
whole,
agarwood, number, tree, without radiance,
lacking light. In the year of tea, we and the Father, the kind, the
flock, the CP, a place of joyful celebration, dark, fresh,
fragrant,
Silver Light, Bright Palace, countless
hearts, the path, vibrant,
fresh colors.  The joyful rhythm resounds, wishing
everyone happiness, a love born from the
vast ocean. The sun shines brightly, the waves roar, the air
is filled with the
fragrance of Heaven, on countless paths of flowers.
And to continue the program, I
respectfully invite the audience to continue
with the next piece, a piece
titled "The Good News," with the duet
of singer Hoang Chi Quyen and child singer
Mai Trang. Yes, I invite the people of
India to continue, continue, to walk
around the Buddha.
Oh, how joyful, the morning light! Oh,
how joyful, the good fortune has come to
humanity! Oh, humanity! The Great Buddha is compassionate!
[Music] Oh, joy, joy
throughout the heavens, the
music plays, everyone is happy to see the
world! Oh, all living beings! The path is
bright with light, the light is fading, the great
Buddha is
born! Yes, please let
us move together! Oh, how joyful, the good fortune
has come to Duy Nhan! Oh,
humanity! The Great Buddha is born!  Oh,
humanity, oh humankind, the great compassion descends
[music] Oh,
joy fills the heavens, the
music of heaven, the deep joy fills all people, good news, seeing the
people again, oh sentient beings, the
Udumbara flower blooms, the light shines brightly, the Great Awakened One, the
family, the lips, the flower of Ani in the evening light, oh, so much joy, the Great Emperor, the great compassion
descends
[music]
Oh, joy fills the heavens, the
whole world rejoices
[music]
We will come with a song, the Full
Moon of
April. Yes, we will
continue to be joyful with the Buddha's birthday celebration.
Yes, please make the name louder,
then we will move on, we will move on.
Yes, we will move on,
we will move on.
Yes, we will raise all our hands
[music]
From the highest peaks, the Buddha is
competing with the blossoming of flowers. The fragrant blossoms of the city of
Kapilavastu are carried by the wind, bringing joy. The
sky brightens, people rejoice, spreading the good
news. Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha of the Four Noble Truths, is born. The
light of
humanity eradicates greed, hatred, and delusion, illuminating the
golden path. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Namo Buddha of the Four Noble Truths. We
bow to you, Lord, for your compassion and kindness, bringing
salvation to all. In the power of harmony, our hearts are filled with the vow to follow the path of truth, even if we encounter slander, danger, and injustice. With faith under the benevolent shadow of the Lord, we sincerely
bow to you. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Namo Buddha of the Four Noble Truths. We kneel. [Music] [Applause] ...  Our
esteemed teacher,
Shakyamuni Buddha, our esteemed teacher, we
humbly request your guidance. The path of compassion, the Golden Path,
brings joy to all, dispelling worries and living
happily in the power of the Flower of Heart. We vow to follow the
path of truth, even when facing
danger and injustice. With faith under the
shadow of benevolence,
we humbly bow to you.
Namo Shakyamuni Buddha, Namo
Shakyamuni Buddha, we kneel before you. Namo
Shakyamuni Buddha, we kneel before you.
[Music]
Yes, on this day, the Great
Buddha's Birthday, I respectfully wish all
Buddhist followers a Buddha's Birthday filled with
peace of mind and body, and everything going as you wish.
Next, we will move on to the
song "Joyful Serenity."
Yes, please turn the volume up a bit.
Yes, let's all sing these three songs loudly.
[Music]
Joyful serenity is always present, like a
simple meal of pickles and vegetables.
Don't lose your heart searching for a distant image. Don't
search for a distant image; find it
near. No need to search far, we are here.  In
this world, when we eat and drink, remember to recite Amitabha Buddha's name, and when we do acts of kindness, it feels as if the Buddha is within us. It feels as if the Buddha is within
us. Our lives have been through many hardships, but our
joy is on a noble path, a path of purity and purity.
Living among all beings, bathed in
loving-kindness, living among
all beings, bathed in loving-kindness, overflowing with
compassion. Let go of evil thoughts, the troubles, the delusions of fame,
wealth, and worldly desires that cause hatred and
suffering. Return to the shore of enlightenment, peace and joy.
Return to the shore of enlightenment, peace and
joy. Long live the
spirit of Buddha's Birthday! Long live the
spirit of Buddha's Birthday! Long live the spirit of Buddha's Birthday!
Yes, we continue!
Yes, where are the hands of the Buddhist devotees?
Let us raise them high and
sway along to the song!
Yes, the
greatest joy! It is truly like a simple
meal of pickles and vegetables, so
don't lose your mind searching for the Buddha's image far away. Don't
search for the Buddha's image far
away. The Buddha is around us in this world. When we eat and drink,
remember to recite Amitabha Buddha's name, and when we do acts of
kindness, it feels as if the Buddha is within us. It feels as if the Buddha is within us.  The
Buddha has come into
us. Our lives have gone through so much hardship, but
the joy is on one path: the path of the Holy,
High Enlightenment, the rain of Dharma,
living among all beings, bathed in
loving-kindness,
living among all beings, bathed in loving-kindness, living among all beings, overflowing with
love. Going away, the earth dissolves, the robes of suffering are far removed from delusion. Fame, wealth, and material
possessions cause deep-seated hatred, and we resolve to return to the shore of enlightenment and peace. We resolve to return to the shore of enlightenment and peace. ... the Buddha's birthday, with its myriad sounds. We
resolve to
return to our positions. We resolve,
indeed, our spirit is
wonderful. We resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve, we resolve,
They rewarded
themselves with a round of applause
[music].
Yes, perhaps it's truly a simple joy, a
very simple happiness, but it's always
real, always present in each of
us. It's just that sometimes in this
chaotic life, this outside life, we
forget that we still have
such genuine joy. And,
to
continue with the program,
we would like you all to
join us for a part that will perhaps allow
us to calm our hearts a
little. After we have had some lively
joys, now
we will calm our hearts a little and move on to the
part where we will
share our personal stories, our
memories,
perhaps about past Buddha's Birthday celebrations or
about the time
we have spent practicing. To begin with
this special part, I would like to
name it "Confessions to the One
I Love," because here we are the
people we initially sang the
song "The One I Love, I Cherish."  And the person who
loves me, the people around
us are all the people we
love. So now, let's have a
heart-to-heart with the person I love. Please
give a big round of applause for
this part! To begin, I would like to
invite the first person to share. Do you
know who it is?
Yes, it is. Luckily, no. Two people said it was
me, so I didn't know
what to share. Yes, it is. First, I would like to invite
you to begin with the segment. You
can sit down. We will sit and have a heart-to-heart
talk. Yes, yes.
Then, I would like to invite you to
stand because you are worried that the audience
below won't be able to see you, so please give your
handshake. Yes, I would like to invite you
to stand on
this stage. Yes, as I have already started,
I would like to invite you to
share because you
have probably experienced many Buddha's Birthday celebrations during your time studying Buddhism.
You can share with the audience some
memories or...  The lessons learned from
past Buddha's Birthday celebrations are for the community to learn from. Yes, for the
first time, I
respectfully invite you, Madam.
Dear fellow practitioners, to
organize this Buddha's Birthday celebration, we
decided to start
at 10:00
AM, and Yen was busy with her duties until after 6
PM, without any preparation
whatsoever. The entire
program was handled by the MC, Yen, who left without a word. I don't
understand what the program included. I really
admire her intelligence,
not just
ordinary intelligence, but very wise intelligence.
On the day we commemorate the
Buddha's birth, we Buddhists shouldn't
just remember his birth date,
but also the memories of
our practice. Today, I would like to invite Buddhist
practitioner Pham Thi Thu
[music],
Buddhist practitioner Nguyen Van
Khanh, because this memory is
related to both of them. Nguyen Thi
Mai Nguyen  Thi Huong, because this is a
memory that my sister CH gave Yen a math problem to do, a
memory related to the Buddha's Birthday season. But Yen
has a memory that involves
four people, so it has to be four
people present. And
Cuong
too,
Cuong Thu wants Cuong to be there too,
a memory is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 people, not just Yen alone.
The story is very interesting, dear fellow devotees.
It was a Buddha's Birthday season, a long time
ago, when people who were considered country
bumpkins went to the temple
to attend the Buddha's Birthday ceremony. But back then, they
didn't know anything. The next day was
Buddha's Birthday. Yen doesn't remember which year it was,
but it was like the year she was just starting out,
from the kitchen to the
stage. That day, it
was around 2 or 3 in the morning. These were the
flower vendors and these people were from Laos, decorating the
stage, but they were just helping out.
Sitting on the stage, it was nighttime, and
Yen said, "Let's go, Thu and Khanh and the other
ladies." Or maybe we...  We went to learn flower arranging from a young
girl. Back then, flower arranging was all about the art of water-based flower arranging, a tradition passed down through generations. So we
sat there, peeking at
the flowers Thuy had thrown away, picking up the flowers that Thuy had
thrown away and wouldn't use anymore. We
started practicing to arrange them, and then
Thuy said, "Why don't you go take your medicine
and go to sleep?" We all didn't understand what she meant.
She said, "Why don't you take your
medicine and go to sleep?" I was so
confused. Then
Thuy said, "Wow, you're really
beautiful like a cassia flower." At that time, I still
didn't understand, but the other girls liked it a lot and
laughed. Then Khanh realized, "Oh, sister!
Thuy said I'm as beautiful as Thanh
Hoa, meaning a cassia flower!"
This is a memory from the Buddha's Birthday season,
from the Buddha's Birthday season of that year...  It was just one year,
a year, right? A year
later, it wasn't just osmanthus flowers anymore, but I became the
head of the flower arrangement committee and
decorated the flowers beautifully. That's how it was, dear fellow
practitioners. That's a memory of the
Buddha's Birthday season. Before, I was just someone
who happily followed along. Because at that time, I
didn't know how to
arrange flowers for offerings myself. But with
sincere devotion, I learned to arrange
flowers myself to offer to
the Dharma center from the very first time.
After a year, that is, the next Buddha's Birthday season, we
had beautiful flower arrangements to offer
to the Buddha's birth. Please
give a round of applause! I
also hope that
with each Buddha's Birthday season,
we Buddhists will grow in
joy through concrete actions of respectful offerings
to the Buddha. It's
very happy
that in the beginning, our practice was still weak, and
sometimes we sisters had many disagreements,
but now I don't know if there are
still many disagreements because this is the
flower arrangement committee, so it's a transformation.  The idea was to
switch to the flower arrangement team because flowers can be arranged. As for the
sisters, I don't know how far they've progressed. Yen does
n't know. Now, switching to the
head of the flower arrangement team, there's
no
problem with a deputy leader anymore. I
don't know
what to say. The sisters love each other, huh? What
song should we sing?
Don't know how to sing? I know, I
know, it
's crude. Okay, hello everyone.
Today is a live broadcast. Please,
10 years. Yes, sir. Please turn around
a little.
If Ms. Thu can't speak,
I'll prompt her. Now, the first question is
for contestant Pham Thi Thu, just
like the head teacher just now. Ms.
Mai, please help a little more.
Now, Ms. Mai, now, please invite Ms. Thu first.
The head of the team first. We keep
asking from the top down, and she's nervous. Then, oh my
god, now the sisters are the general audience. She's not applauding anymore. This contestant has received the most applause so far. Yes, sir, let's begin.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear fellow
practitioners, I am also the head of the team.
Actually, it's thanks to the help of the
brothers and sisters in the
committee. Actually, since I first came
to the temple, I didn't know how to arrange
flowers at all. But I was guided by the
Dharma teacher, Ms. Pham
Thi Yen, who taught us from the very beginning.
Before, when we tried to arrange flowers, we
didn't know
how to tie them properly. We'd just keep putting them in and then they'd fall over. We'd keep saying, "
Why did they fall?"
So, many times, we were just at a
loss,
and Ms. Yen would come and
guide and teach us. From then on,
we in the Dharma group and the
committee helped each other with things we could
n't do or things we did
wrong, guiding and teaching each
other to get to where we are today.
Before, I didn't know what else to say,
I was very nervous. Now,
I would like to wish all fellow practitioners a
happy and joyful Buddha's Birthday.
Thank you. Yes, not yet transferred.  Where is the microphone? It
hasn't been moved yet.
So, may I ask what
is the latest time you work during
the day? Does that mean you start and
finish decorating with flowers at the latest?
Usually, the
flower team works at night
and finishes only when the work is done,
but actually, the
flower team often works
until 3, 4, or 5 in the morning before they can go home to rest. It's
really
hard work, but it's very enjoyable.
How can we make the
flower arrangements beautiful and bring
joy to everyone? Oh, the
question is, how can we maximize the number of
participants? That's
very difficult, not simple at all. Yes, actually, the
reason I'm asking this question is to
share with everyone here, in our Buddhist community
or other Buddhist communities,
the thing we know about
silent and selfless dedication is something everyone understands.
However, especially for
Buddhists.  And for those of you watching
live, not everyone knows who's
behind the beauty of the stage and the
beautiful flower floats,
and what they're like. This is just
a very small part, but through this,
Duc Anh wants to convey to you
that these are the people who
silently contribute to making things beautiful. First of all, they
beautify
the program, and that's
showing the spirit of Buddhists.
We will always, we will always...
This is a lesson, isn't it? To
show that our fellow practitioners always
strive like this, in every job
we do, we will do the same. Is that right, everyone?
Yes,
not now. No. This is the only male here. I would
like to ask, because this is the person who came
in first. You said he was from India. Yes, sir, may I
ask
a little about yourself? What is your name and
which team are you currently working in? That's
tense! Let's give a round of applause!
The question is very simple. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Respectfully, to the
congregation.  The head of the community,
my name is Nguyen Kim Cuong, and I am a
Buddhist of the
Compassionate Community Dharma Center. Oh,
this contestant is a little nervous.
Today, wearing this outfit is beautiful, almost
the most beautiful, yet still nervous. Try your best, I'm
really nervous today because of
everyone. Everyone here looks so beautiful.
Then let me ask you first, do you think you look
beautiful?
How would you answer that? Yes,
sir, then please allow me to answer the question: currently, which group are you a member of in the Compassionate Community Dharma Center? The Main Group, yes. The Main Group, the Culinary Group. That's the
question, and that's the answer I want
you to answer. Yes, so the
main group is the Culinary Group. So, what are
your main tasks in the Culinary Group? Please
tell me.
Because I'm asking this question, since you
're a man. Normally, the
image of a man outside is different, but
this is a member of the Culinary Group,
so can you tell me about
your daily work in the Culinary Group?  "
What do you do? That's a difficult question, who can answer it?
Now, what do you do? Just tell me. It's a
very difficult question to answer. Actually,
where is it? Respectfully, dear fellow Buddhists,
we only know how to do things, we don't
know how to do anything. Let me introduce to
all of you present
here today, Buddhist Nguyen Kim
Cuong, a Buddhist of the Compassionate Dharma Center, who
participates in almost all the activities in the Dharma Center.
Yes, respectfully, dear fellow Buddhists,
almost all the Buddhists
in the Dharma Center, all the Buddhists in the Dharma Center,
whatever group they are assigned to, they can do
that group. Please give a round of
applause. Yes, thank you very much, Buddhists.
Now, please invite Yen. Yen has finished sharing
her memories related to five fellow
Buddhists. Now, I will invite
another fellow Buddhist to share a story
about a
memory from the Buddha's birthday five
years ago. Does anyone want to volunteer?
I say, teacher, this seems very
familiar to me because I often work with the
students, and sometimes when I ask them, they say the same thing,
but I think
this..."  As you just said, our Buddhist followers
are probably hesitant to share their
experiences, so they're a bit shy. But
I think today is a time for
us to open up a little, to share our
memories,
experiences, or interesting
stories.
Yes, Ms. Dung has many interesting stories, and Ms. Mao also has many interesting
stories. I
invite the two of you to come up here. You have
many interesting stories,
but you're keeping them to yourselves.
Today, I invite the two of you to come up here and tell your
stories. Yes, please give a round of
applause! Let's hear from the two ladies
in the organizing committee!
[Music]
[Applause]
Yes, let's see. Duc Anh TH asks
who the two ladies will answer first.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear fellow
Buddhists, on
this Buddha's Birthday, I
also have many funny stories.
But right now, I only remember a few
about the work and duties of the Buddha's
Birthday.  Generally speaking, on all those
days, for example, the recent Buddha's Birthday celebration at the
Golden Pagoda, the number of
people we had was actually increased for the
work we did.
The planned number for the
Buddha's Birthday celebration on the 18th was only
8,000, then 12,000. But in
the end, Ms. Tam Hai told Ms. Mao
to go and check the temporary number of people.
That day, I went up to 800,
and then I
told her that it had already reached
12,000 people. She said that
number was too much. So I told her that the
food and other things were prepared, and she said that was about right up to that
point. But when it came time to
distribute the food,
by noon that day, there were about
15,000 people eating lunch. And then,
because we had to cook
rice in two kitchens, one for the monks and one for the nuns
...  The nuns forgot about the
monks who were cooking, so there
was a shortage in the distribution.
In the end,
20,000 people ended up eating at one meal on
Buddha's Birthday. Therefore, the
work of Ba Vang Pagoda was truly miraculous;
the number of Buddhists was unimaginable. Also, there were many
children born with difficult births
that day, but
I saw that
everyone was very happy with the work
and the joy of serving the public at Ba
Vang Pagoda. On the day of
Buddha's birth, I just wanted to
share this with all the fellow devotees. Amitabha
Buddha. Before continuing, I
would like to inform the
congregation that today we are having a
feast. Please enjoy the meal while you listen to the
story; otherwise, it would be a
waste to leave anything behind. Because the
food preparation team has put in
a lot of effort and prepared a full spread of
food, I invite everyone to
join us.  Listening to the story was quite
enjoyable. That
is, the ladies said, "The story's over, I'm
too nervous!" So, I'll ask Ms. Dung one more question, just one more, one question related to the previous one, which is the second part of the first question: "Do you feel as nervous here as you did when you stood in front of the traffic police?" "I'm more nervous than the traffic police!"
I jokingly call her "Ms.
Worm" instead of "Ms. Dung," but
generally speaking, despite that, these
two are what you'd call two
iron women, because they coordinate a
huge amount of work and everything is done
very thoroughly. I myself have
tried it once, and it's
really tiring and headache-inducing
because there are so many things to oversee and
so many things to worry about. So, these
two are also amazing people,
thanks to their self-cultivation, their work is
smooth and everything is done very thoroughly.
Please wait for a round of applause to
thank the two ladies in the management board. Yes, ma'am.
Okay, stop being nervous now, there's still time.
No, ma'am, we will
continue because it's a celebration of the birth of Father Lành once a year. I
invite you, ma'am, to continue. If there are any
other aunts or uncles who have stories to share,
please come forward to continue the discussion.
This is a very
special program, dear fellow practitioners. Because it's a celebration of
Buddha's Birthday, we are also remembering
previous Buddha's Birthday celebrations, and remember that next year
we will have questions to recall
this year's Buddha's Birthday.
Yes, now, please,
let's invite you to participate. Is anyone
raising their hand? All
Buddhists have a duty in the Dharma hall. Yes, yes,
we Buddhists
are doing our part, but it's difficult to say anything. Yes,
ma'am, I think I'll invite you again to go up to
Bắc Huệ. Yes, ma'am, I invite you to go up to Bắc Huệ. Yes, ma'am, I
invite you to go up to Bắc Huệ. But
no one is looking at Yến.
Before, everyone was looking, but since
the question was asked, everyone just looked at
each other, no one looked up.  They keep
looking at each other. I'd like to
suggest, teacher, that if you look down
and someone keeps looking elsewhere, we invite that
person over. Then, everyone look up here,
but whoever looks up with the
most intense gaze, we invite
that person over. Then we don't know
how to react anymore. It's really scarier than the
police! Scarier than Duc Anh! Yes, please
welcome Ms. Hue! Let's give her a round of applause! I'm
not sure Ms. Hue won't be nervous,
but I hope she's not nervous and still
speaks as well as Ms. Jun did earlier!
Yes, this is Ms. Hue, the head of the main diligent
Dharma group. She'll share a
memory about her Dharma group.
Today isn't the "From the
Heart" Dharma group, but the head of the main
diligent Dharma group will share a memory from the
Buddha's Birthday celebration of the main diligent Dharma group.
Let's give her a round of applause!
Yes, yes. With the guidance of the master,
there's another set of clothes, and Hue has just started to
give that blue set
to someone else to wear, and Hue decided to
wear that set of clothes for a few more times.  This second time, but
by chance, Hue
agreed to wear it and really liked wearing
this newly made outfit, but because the group and
everyone wanted it that way, all the Indian costumes
of the ancestral masters were gone. Now, bring them here for
me, 20 people to put in the procession of the
flower floats. Hue ran back and forth
looking for members of the group to put
in the procession of the flower floats. Then, when she
went back to change her clothes and rushed out, it was
too late, and there was no one left to wrap the
sdi for Hue anymore. So in the end, she
didn't get to wear the sdi, and even today she
still hasn't been able to wear it. Today,
I went to Bao Lien Pagoda, hoping that the
club wouldn't hold the Buddha's Birthday celebration until 8 PM tonight, and I was
sure
I would be able to wear it, but I missed it.
So now, because I rushed back
from Bao Lien Pagoda
because I was afraid of being late, I have to
wear a modern ao dai.
Yes, yes, a memory. It's
really, really, how could I not, how could I not, how could I not want
to?  It was like wearing
a new silk robe, and it was transported five or
seven times, but it always came back to
Hue. Meanwhile, Hue's robe was very
beautifully made, with
very beautiful borders and decorations.
So many Buddhists, because of their longing, could
n't even get a robe with such beautiful decorations.
But I want to share this with you,
dear fellow practitioners, as a very memorable experience.
Yes, hello, thank you very much,
Sister Hue. It's true that in this
world, we often
encounter the suffering of
unfulfilled desires.
The Buddha taught about eight sufferings.
First, we always have our
desires not fulfilled, leading to the
suffering of wanting to give but having no one to
take it. Then, when we want to wear something but can't, that's
even more suffering.
But you have seen a
miraculous thing, which is the realm of cause and effect.
If our mind desires
something that is outside our karmic conditions, we will
not receive it. But if we don't
desire something, but it is within our
karmic conditions, we will still receive it or still have to
endure it. That's the lesson.  On the occasion of the Buddha's birthday,
and on behalf of the entire congregation, we wish
Sister Hue the best of luck in wearing the most beautiful robe next year.
Thank you so much for the story
that left such a strong
impression on you and on us as well.
Because when Sister Hue
had the desire to give, she
immediately received the blessing of receiving something,
right? Even without giving, she still
had the opportunity to wear the robe. But when she
tried to cultivate the desire to possess it, she did
n't get it. So, I think she's
almost out of the opportunity to possess
worldly possessions,
only possessing the Dharma treasure, the
Dharma of giving. Yes,
thank you very much, Sister.
Yes,
Aunt Hue was someone who didn't
get to wear the robe
this year. But now, I want to invite
someone who will get to wear it, and not only her,
but her granddaughter will also get to wear it. Yes, I
invite Aunt Hoang Thu Thao to
come up here. Please give a round of
applause! I also jokingly said that on
that day...  Many of you students
took pictures of Aunt
Thao's granddaughter, even though she's only 8 months
old, but she's already wrapped in an
Indian headscarf, and she looks very beautiful. Yes, I also
invite some sisters from the
Right View Dharma group to come up here wearing S-shaped headscarves.
This is the Dharma group leader of the Right
View Dharma group. I invite some sisters wearing S-shaped clothes, or rather,
S-shaped headscarves. Yen also accepted it,
but she didn't
understand the name of the headscarf. Luckily, she learned
the name from Sister Hue earlier.
Yes, I invite the sisters in the Dharma group to
witness this. Yes, please
give a round of applause to welcome the
members of the Right View Dharma group. The
ladies today are also wrapped in S-shaped headscarves, they look very beautiful. Let's
clap louder!
[Music] Do
you all think it's beautiful? Very beautiful!
Please, police, ask whatever you want. Yes,
ma'am. This is just a joke,
because I'm so scared, standing in front of the
police is the scariest thing. Yes, Duc Anh,
now everyone come up here. Duc Anh is
even more scared than the police asking questions.  Yes, I'm
very nervous. Ms. Thao said, "Okay, let me tell you myself." Okay, then
I won't ask anymore. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. I'm leaving. My name is Hoang
Thi Thu Thao, Dharma name Tam Hien. Currently, I
am the head of the Buddhist
community. The memories of this year's Buddha's Birthday celebration are very meaningful. The organizing committee, that is, I'm very honored to have the information committee come to my family home to gather
information for the Buddha's Birthday celebration.
Actually, I have a lot of
responsibilities, and I'm very fortunate to have the information committee come to film. The
recent scandals at Ba Vang Pagoda are
also very continuous.
Yesterday, I also had a family event,
but I managed to come to the pagoda in time. So,
this year's Buddha's Birthday celebration is very meaningful. The preparations for
our group were fortunate enough to have the information committee come to
film. On that day, we were
n't finished preparing yet. That is, we hadn't
finished preparing our clothes. I
also invited them...  Thao also invited the
Minh Tue Buddhist group of Mrs. Dinh
and Ms. Thuan's group. Ms. Thuan's group
finished sewing, and then she said, "Oh, sister,
you bring us some. Today we're going to
film with the information team. Generally, I haven't prepared everything yet. I have
n't prepared anything, I don't even have an
Indian outfit." But today, when we came to
film, she brought us
everything to borrow.
That day, when we came to film with the information team, Thao and her group
borrowed all the clothes. But
Thao was also very worried about
this year's Buddha's Birthday celebration. She
went to buy the
cheapest fabric herself to sew the outfits for the Buddhist group. Then,
she designed them very simply.
The Buddhist outfits Thao and her group are wearing cost
less than 300,000 VND. That's
not even 300,000 VND for one outfit. She
bought and sewed them herself, designed them very simply. The
skirt is separate, very simple. It's a
family memento, and
Thao has a granddaughter who is courageous.
That day, I didn't think we'd be filming the little
Buddhist children. Luckily, I said, "Okay,
today I'll just make a scarf for you to
wrap around my niece," and then I told Ms.
Hien, "Bring the whole child down here, okay?
Today is so much fun, so crowded. That day was very busy, we
invited all the
neighboring Buddhist groups, the Minh Tue group and
Ms. Thuan's group to attend the grand
Buddhist ceremony. The preparations were very beautiful and solemn. We just
wrapped the child, who is called
Tue Minh, in a hurry. It was just a scarf." But I
didn't expect
that clip to go viral so
quickly. It was so much fun. Thao is very happy to see that
clip of her niece and Ms. Hien's niece went viral. It's a
memorable moment for Thao, and for her Buddhist
group. It was very fun this year
to get this information about the filming.  I
went shopping for things for the temple myself, spending my own
money, and I'll figure things out later. I just put
everything into taking care of the temple, from flowers for the
Buddha's birthday celebration to even inviting a
Buddha statue to decorate and
for other temples to
borrow if needed. So, I
also have the
impression that this year is very joyful because I'm taking care
of the temple because for
so many years I've been away working. Bringing the
bell to ring is fitting. That is,
even though I was born in Ha Tu, I have
n't had the opportunity to help, so
now I've been able to return to be with my sisters and
encourage them in the temple. Namo
Amitabha Buddha. Dear fellow
practitioners, my
joy is truly in my
heart, the joy of taking care of my temple,
that is, putting in all the money and effort
to take care of my sisters beforehand,
sewing clothes for them, and then they can
give me the money later. That's the
joy. And I, Thao, ca
n't even express it clearly.  That means joy comes from
seeing her caring for the Dharma center and the Buddhist followers
in the center, and her joy and happiness. She takes
the joy and happiness of the fellow practitioners as
her own joy. I commend
Ms. Thao's merit. Yes, yes,
and actually, if
we were to recount all the
scriptures and memories,
we probably wouldn't finish even by the end of tonight. So,
as I said earlier, let's
try to
remember these stories so that after the
next Buddha's Birthday celebrations, we can
continue to share our stories. And
now, first of all, I would like to thank
all the elders in the Dharma center.
Yes, thank you, elders. Please give a round of applause.
Now, let's line up. Let's line up in a row. Let's
say this is a row of Indian Buddhist followers who are
visiting Vietnam today. (Please
clap your hands loudly.) Yes.
Respectfully, Ms. Head of the Dharma Center, and
all the esteemed Buddhist followers,
now we will continue...  Continuing the program
is another very important ritual
on the anniversary of the Buddha's birth: the
ritual of bathing the
sacred statue of the Buddha. Now, I
invite all of you
to join us for
this special ritual.
Dear fellow practitioners, I would like to
conclude the previous part by saying that
everyone should share their
joys in the practice of giving. Is
n't that right, dear practitioners? All the
stories are joyful in the practice of giving.
That
's just a few representatives, but
I think that everyone is
joyful in the practice of giving, right, dear
practitioners? Yes, and I hope that next year
we will have even more commemorative stories
when
we participate in the program to make it
more lively. Do you all
agree? Yes, now we
will proceed to the program, the
Buddha bathing ceremony. Dear practitioners, please
stand up. Should
we line up or should we
chant first? Let's stand
in place. Then, all you Buddhists,
turn around!  Please stand still and turn
up here
[music]
This song, this song
[music] is
it? Dear fellow
practitioners, let us recite the
praise and vow before you all.
Because every year we celebrate the
Buddha's birthday, it is also the year
we make vows to practice the Dharma.
Praise to
him means practicing the Dharma in our hearts,
so practicing the Dharma is our
aspiration, our wish. The
Buddhas want all beings to become Buddhas, so
we take our vows and practice
to offer to the Buddha. And today
we offer our devotion on the Buddha's
birthday, and in this assembly, we will
recite the praise and vow
to commemorate the birth of Shakyamuni Buddha.
Last time, in the main hall,
we already recited it. Now,
I will hold the microphone, and everyone will read along,
reading loudly, and I will read softly.
Let's all look upwards.
Let's all pull our chairs wider so
we can stand straight. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully address the Buddhas. Today, this
assembly...
We, members of the Golden National Club practicing the
Six Harmonies, along with several other Dharma centers, have come here
to participate in the
celebration of the Buddha's birthday.
We all offer our praise and
vows to practice diligently to honor the
Buddha. With utmost sincerity and devotion, we humbly
request the Buddhas to bear witness to our devotion.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, your disciples, with utmost sincerity and devotion, respectfully praise the
Buddha Shakyamuni and make our
vows on the anniversary of
his birth. There was a sage in countless eons who
always performed good deeds, offered alms to the
Buddhas, and compassionately practiced the
Bodhisattva path until his last life. He was the Lord of the Heavenly
Palace, appearing as a Bodhisattva named Ho
Minh, observing the
suffering of humankind. The Bodhisattva Ho Minh, following his compassionate vow, descended to earth into
the heart of a king in ancient India. His
mother was Maha, his father was Samantabhadra, and his name was Siddhartha. He possessed the highest virtue and
majestic appearance, exuding the
threefold path of enlightenment. His beauty and fame were renowned. From the
moment of his birth, he took seven steps,
each step
revealing a path of enlightenment. At the seventh step,
he stopped.
With one hand pointing to the sky and the other to the earth, he spoke with the
majestic voice of "
Heaven Above, Heaven Below, I alone am supreme." The
heavens rejoiced, offering flowers as a tribute, the dragon
spewing water. The people, the Crown Prince, rejoiced,
wishing for the trees to bloom,
welcoming the Crown Prince. The royal palace opened its doors,
inviting ascetics, Brahmins, and
generals. The Crown Prince, the immortal, and the esteemed Buddha,
declared that if the Crown Prince remained in the
world, his name would be the Wheel-Turning King.
If he
departed, his name would be the Supreme, the Perfectly Enlightened One,
as prophesied. The Crown Prince, still young and
talented, appeared on the first day of spring
during the Lower Field ceremony.
Seeing the suffering of all beings, the
Crown Prince felt pity, his life was like a
burning flame,
wishing for all beings to escape suffering.
When he grew up, the Heavenly Court was about to be established.
He encountered four scenes: feigning illness and death,
along with the noble and liberated appearance of an ascetic. The Crown
Prince
resolved to leave the world, seeking enlightenment. His beautiful wife, beloved children,
golden palace, and jade hall could not hold him back. On the
18th day of the 2nd month, he
left the city, renouncing worldly life. For five years he sought a master and
studied the Dharma, for six years he practiced asceticism. He stopped in his old age, but
without talent or desire, he left the ancient forest and
returned to his ascetic practice.  Following the path of
enlightenment, the Venerable One continued his journey, his alms
bowl floating upstream
beneath the Bodhi tree. He practiced meditation
until the third watch of the night, at the hour of the 3 AM, when he attained the
supreme enlightenment of perfect and complete Buddhahood.
In his compassionate meditation, he bestowed the wondrous Dharma to
save humanity, gods, and all beings, showing them to
recognize suffering, its causes, and the
path to the cessation of suffering and the
joy of Nirvana—the Noble Eightfold Path. From there,
beings have the path to liberation from suffering.
Today, we offer this prayer and
vow to the Supreme One. We
vow to follow his teachings
in this present life, with sincere hearts, seeking the
supreme path. While still at home, we uphold the Three Jewels,
observe the precepts, and study the Dharma. If we have the opportunity to
become monks, we will diligently practice and strictly observe the
precepts to achieve enlightenment. We further
vow that in every lifetime,
wherever we are born, we will meet the Buddhas. We will rely on
their skillful means, following their teachings and
vows, transmitting the wondrous Dharma to save
all beings, benefiting ourselves and others. In
every lifetime, we will always be grateful to the Venerable Monks, our
great teachers.  We, your disciples,
follow the righteous path; this is a benevolent wish from our sincere
hearts. We earnestly hope that the Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, and Sages will bear
witness to our offering of this vow
and our heartfelt prayers, that it may soon be fulfilled. Namo Tathagata, the Buddha, the Bodhisattva, the enlightened one, the virtuous one, the enlightened one, the meditative one, the virtuous one, the virtuous one, the
teacher of
Heaven, Humanity, and the Buddha, the World.
[Music]
We, your Buddhist disciples, have made our
vows before the Buddha's image.
Now, as we approach the
Buddha bathing ceremony,
let us all turn our attention
to chanting the
Buddha bathing verse. Let
us chant once to the music. We respectfully offer this to the
Tathagata, the virtuous one, the one who
learned the conduct of the Devas, the
Buddha's mind and body. When he was born, he took seven
steps. Prince Siddhartha,
overflowing with wisdom, adorned with merit, manifested in all beings, transcending the defilements of the world, and attaining the Tathagata's love. The
Dharma body of
Kapilavastu, never
born among the Sala trees, never perished, neither born nor perished, the
water of fragrant flowers. We respectfully
offer this image of the Buddha, the image of his birth, our hearts
overflowing with joy. I am under the water of fragrant flowers, my heart
pervading all
directions, the Dharma realm, all beings, the teacher, the Buddha.
Ni Mau Ni Tam Mau Ni a Mau Ni Mau Ni
Tam Mau Ni a Mau Ni Mau Ni Tam
Mau Ni t
b
va we have all chanted the song of praise to the
Buddha together now Yen will join the esteemed fellow practitioners in
bathing the Buddha and the song "Still Let's Sing"
Those below who haven't bathed the Buddha yet,
let's sing together.
Joyful is the birth of the Buddha! Yes
[music]
Joyful is the birth of the Buddha Joyful is the
Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony ... Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha
Joyful is the
birth of the Buddha Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the birth Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the
harmony of
the Sangha Joyful is the birth Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the
harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the birth Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the birth Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the
birth Joyful is the
Dharma of the Sangha Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha
Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the happiness of the Buddha Joyful is the
birth Joyful is the Dharma of the Sangha
Joyful is the harmony of the Sangha Joyful is the happiness of  It is
difficult to
live, it is difficult to hear the wondrous Dharma, it is
difficult to be born as a human being, it is
difficult to live, it is difficult to
hear the wondrous Dharma, it is difficult to be born as a human being. Joyful indeed is the birth of the Buddha,
joyful is the Dharma being attained. Joyful indeed is the
harmonious practice of the
Sangha. Joyful indeed is the birth of the Buddha, joyful is the Dharma being attained. Joyful indeed is the harmonious practice of the Sangha. Joyful indeed is the
Sangha. Joyful indeed is the Buddha's family and world. Joyful indeed is the
Dharma being attained. Joyful indeed is the
harmonious practice of the Sangha. Joyful indeed is the harmonious practice of
the Sangha. Joyful indeed is the birth of the Buddha, joyful is the Dharma being attained. Joyful indeed is the
harmonious practice of the Sangha ...
[music]
to h